## Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

This repository contains: 

[1] run_analysis.R - R scripts that read, modify, and manipulate the original training and test data sets to get a tidy data set, called "tidydata.txt". Note that all data files should be placed in the working directory for this R code to run successfully. 
    To be more specific, run_analysis.R does the following: 

    1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
    2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
    3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
    4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
    5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.


[2] CodeBook.md - the code book that describes the data, the variables, and any transformations or work that were performed to clean up the original data sets to get a tidy data set.   


[3] tidydata.txt - the tidy data set that has been generated by running the R scripts, run_analysis.R: The tidy dataset includes the average of each feature for each activity and each subject.

Note: The data used for this project are "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set" which represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone: Human Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors. Please visit http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones for more details. 

